---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

# DSCI 523 Quiz 2 - 2021

```{=html}
<style>
pre.solution {
    background-color: lightgrey !important;
}
</style>
```
## Question 2

Consider the function defined below:

    #' Percentage
    #'
    #' @param numerator a numeric vector with values for the numerator of the 
    #' percentage calculation
    #' @param denominator a numeric vector with values for the denominator of the 
    #' percentage calculation
    #' @param sig_digits a numeric vector of length 1 specifying the number of 
    #' significant digits to round to. Default is 0.
    #'
    #' @return a numeric vector of percentages
    #' @export
    #'
    #' @examples
    #' percentage(50, 100)
    percentage <- function(numerator, denominator, sig_digits = 0) {
      round(numerator / denominator * 100, sig_digits)
      if(!is.numeric(c(numerator, denominator))){
        stop("Cannot calculate percentage for non-numerical values")
        }
    }

Fill in the blanks (\_\_\_) in the code below to write two useful tests
you would write to demonstrate that this function works.

    library(testthat)
    test_that("_______________________", {
      ____________________________________
    })
    test_that("_______________________", {
      ____________________________________
    })

##### SOLUTION

``` solution
test_that("Percentage is calculated incorrectly", {
    expect_equal(percentage(2, 3), 66.7)
})
test_that("function expects numeric values for all input", {
    expect_error(percentage(2, "four"))
})
```

## Question 3

Given the Roxygen2 documentation below, write the function it specifies.

    #' Multiply two numbers
    #' 
    #' @param x A number.
    #' @param y A number.
    #' @return The multiplication of x and y
    #' @export
    #'
    #' @examples
    #' multiply(1, 1)
    #' multiply(10, 1)

##### SOLUTION

``` solution
multiply <- function(x, y) {
  x * y
}
```

## QUESTION 4

Below we show the first 6 rows of the built in CO2 data set in R. Use
dplyr to calculate the number of observations for each plant, as well as
their minimum concentration (conc column).

      Plant   Type  Treatment conc uptake
    1   Qn1 Quebec nonchilled   95   16.0
    2   Qn1 Quebec nonchilled  175   30.4
    3   Qn1 Quebec nonchilled  250   34.8
    4   Qn1 Quebec nonchilled  350   37.2
    5   Qn1 Quebec nonchilled  500   35.3
    6   Qn1 Quebec nonchilled  675   39.2

##### SOLUTION

``` solution
CO2 |> 
group_by(Plant) |> 
summarise(number = n(),min_val = min(conc))
```

## QUESTION 5

Use an appropriate {purrr} map\_\* function with an anonymous function
to iterate over the list named nested_samples shown below and calculate
the sum of each of the vectors in the sub-lists `obs`. Return an numeric
vector of length 3. Both the code used to create the data, and the print
output of R is shown to help you answer the question.

    set.seed(2020) # makes the random numbers below reproducible
    nested_samples <- list(list(rep = 1, obs = rnorm(5, 5, 2.5)),
                    list(rep = 2, obs = rnorm(5, 5, 2.5)),
                    list(rep = 3, obs = rnorm(5, 5, 2.5)))

    nested_samples

    [[1]]
    [[1]]$rep
    [1] 1

    [[1]]$obs
    [1]  2.968738  3.140745  7.738363 11.088434  5.970296


    [[2]]
    [[2]]$rep
    [1] 2

    [[2]]$obs
    [1] 5.726569 4.286004 5.190037 3.599253 6.117971


    [[3]]
    [[3]]$rep
    [1] 3

    [[3]]$obs
    [1] 7.271253 3.737351 4.247490 3.184910 2.049807

##### SOLUTION

``` solution
map_dbl(nested_samples, ~sum(.$obs))
```

## QUESTION 6

Why does the function below not work?

    #' Get the nth matching row.
    #'
    #' Filter for rows that match a condition, and then slice the specified row number.
    #'
    #' @param data a data frame from which to filter and slice the rows
    #' @param ... a condition to match
    #' @param row_number nth row number to return from rows that match the condition
    #'
    #' @return a data frame containing the nth row that matches the specified condition
    #' @export
    #'
    #' @examples
    #' get_nth_match(mtcars, hp < 100, 1)
    get_nth_match <- function(data, ..., row_number) { 
      data |> 
        filter(...) |> 
        slice(row_number) 
    }

##### SOLUTION

> We are passing the dots for something that is used in logical
> comparisons (condition to be watched). The dots should also be last
> argument to be passed as it can intepret multiple arugments. In this
> case, the `row_number` parameter will be misintepreted as part of the
> ... argument to be used in filter and hence break the code.

## QUESTION 7

Use a dplyr function to change the two erroneous mappings in the data
shown below (mode should be of type central tendency, and quartiles
should be of type spread). Both the code used to create the data, and
the print output of R is shown to help you answer the question.

    library(dplyr) 

    summary_stats <- tibble(stat = c("mean",
                                     "median",
                                     "mode",
                                     "standard deviation",
                                     "variance", 
                                     "quartiles"),
                            type = c("central tendency",
                                     "central tendency",
                                     "spread",
                                     "spread",
                                     "spread",
                                     "central tendency"))
    summary_stats

    # A tibble: 6 x 2
      stat               type            
      <chr>              <chr>           
    1 mean               central tendency
    2 median             central tendency
    3 mode               spread          
    4 standard deviation spread          
    5 variance           spread          
    6 quartiles          central tendency

##### SOLUTION

``` solution
summary_stats <- summary_stats |>
  mutate(type = case_when(stat == "mode" ~ "central tendency",
                              stat == "quartiles" ~ "spread",
                              TRUE ~ type))
```

## QUESTION 8

In 2-3 sentences and in your own words, discuss the advantages to using
a purrr map\_\* function for iteration as opposed to a base R for loop.
In particular, comment on the case when iterating over an object with
multiple elements that need to be changed/updated.

##### SOLUTION

> `When writing for loops in base R, one needs to be careful to iterate over the object the right number of times (e.g., use seq_along vs length to guard against iterating over empty objects), as well as pre-allocate objects in the case that objects are being changed/updated in the loop, and use indexing correctly to update objects with multiple elements inside a loop. It is easy to make small syntax errors when doing this, despite there being a standard way of setting this up.  The {purrr} map_* functions take care of this setup for you so that your code is more readable, and you make less syntax errors.`
